# Different types of EC2 instances

On-Demand instances:
  Short workload, predictable pricing

Reserved Instance: (Minimum 1 year)
  Reserved Instances: Long Workloads
  Purchases for a set period of time for reduced cost
  Convertible Reserved Instances: Long workloads with flexible instances
  (We can change the instance type. For e.g., from t2.micro to t2.large)
  Scheduled Reserved Instances: Example, instance is required on every Thursday between 3PM and 6 PM
  Spot Instances: Short workloads, cheap and less reliable (Can lose instances)
  Dedicated hosts: Book and entire physical server, control instance placement

EC2 On Demand:
  Pay for what you use.
  Linux - Billing per second after first minute.
  Other OS - Billing per hour
  has the highest cost but no upfront payment
  Recommended for short-term and uninterrupted workloads, where you cant predict
  how the application will behave.
  Capacity reservations allows us to reserve capacity based on different attributes such as
  instance type, platform, tenancy within a particular availability zone for any period of time.

EC2 Reserved Instance:
  Upto 75% discount compared to On-Demand.
  Reservation period is 1-3 years.
  Maximum discount if an instance is reserved for 3 years.
  Payment options - No upfront, partial upfront and full upfront (again max discount)
  Reserve a specific instance type
  Steady state usage application - database application

  Convertible Reserved Instance:
    Can change the EC2 instance type based on the requirement
    Upto 66% discount

  Scheduled Reserved Instance:
    Runs only on a particular period.
    Even if we didn't use the instance, we will be charged.

EC2 Spot Instance:
  Maximum discount upto 90%
  However, least reliable since you may end up losing the instance if the max price
  is less than the current spot price.
  Spot price is set by AWS and fluctuates based on demand and flow.
  Bid for large EC2 instances for a low cost.
  The MOST cost-efficient instances in AWS.
  Use for workloads that are resilient to failures.
    - Batch jobs
    - Image Processing
    - Data Analysis
    - Any distributed Workloads

EC2 Dedicated Hosts:
  An Amazon EC2 dedicated host is a physical server with EC2 instance
  fully dedicated to your use.
  Can help you address Compliance Requirements
  Allows to use existing Server Bound software licenses
  Allocated for a 3 year Reservation
  Per host billing

EC2 Dedicated Instance:
  instances running on hardware that's dedicated to you
  May share hardware with other instances running in the same account
  No control over instance placement (Can move hardware after Stop/Start)
  Per instance billing
